your Mount Vernon AE appliance is
designed to automatically light a fire
and deliver powerful efficient heat when
you need it but like most wood fires it
still requires regular attention for
continuous operation
during normal operation you will need to
fill the hopper empty the ash pan and
clean the fire pot and firebox
periodically depending on the type and
grade of fuel you are burning the
schedule for these normal procedures
will vary the quicker the ash pan fills
up the more frequently the ash pan will
need to be emptied this is the best
indicator for cleaning the other
components as well
allow your appliance to cool completely
empty the ash pan in a metal or non
combustible container with a
tight-fitting lid place the container in
a safe area away from combustible
materials
make sure the stove is cold before
cleaning the glass to clean the glass
use a damp paper towel or any non
abrasive cleaner then use a dry towel to
wipe off any streaks that may remain
this is a good time to inspect the door
latch and windows seals to ensure they
are in good condition and seal tightly a
tight seal is important for the stove to
burn properly
the appliance must be completely shut
down and cool and the exhaust blower
must be off the fire-pot floor and
fire-pot air holes will need to be
scraped occasionally depending on the
quality of fuel being used using the
fire pot clean-out tool remove excess
build out from the fire pot it may be
necessary to use your fire pot clean-out
tool to chip away material that is built
up on the sides of the fire pot and to
push out any clinkers larger clinkers
may have to be removed from the top of
the fire pot corn clinkers can be
especially difficult to break up if the
clinker adheres to the sides of the fire
pot you will need to manually clean the
fire pot after cleaning the fire pot and
inspecting the holes turn off the power
then restore the power the auto clean
system will then clean itself the glass
door must remain closed for the auto
clean system to work
if you are burning premium wood pellets
and the fire pot fills with ash before
the system automatically cleans change
to the utility pellet fuel setting if
the fire pot overfill wait until the
appliance has cooled completely then
unplug it and remove the excessive fuel
clean the fire pot making sure that all
the air holes are clear and close the
door and plug the appliance back in if
unburned fuel falls into the ash pan
during the auto clean cycle empty the
ash pan before use unburned fuel can
ignite in the ash pan and the resulting
fire can prematurely weakened and
damaged appliance components allow the
appliance to cool completely open the
doors
remove the optional log set gently
shaking off any loose ash be careful
they are fragile and vacuum out the
firebox
the baffle extends to the top
bottom of the fire box behind the fire
pot remove it by placing a flathead
screwdriver into the slot on the latches
in the upper corners and push down the
bottom of the latch will fall forward
and off the post
lift the baffle up then out towards you
be careful when you do this the baffles
made of cast iron and it's heavy
thoroughly scrub and vacuum the back
wall next using the crevice tool clean
the heat exchanger fins pay close
attention to the crevice running along
the back of the floor below the heat
exchanger clean this area thoroughly
with the crevice tool it is critical
that the two pockets at the back of the
firebox floor left and right be
thoroughly cleaned to replace the baffle
place the two locating ears behind the
bottom edge and tilt the baffle up and
into place centering it in the opening
the bottom of the latches will fit over
the posts push the top of the latch
forward to lock it into place
to clean the combustion blower begin by
removing the combustion motor mount
using an eleven thirty Seconds nut
driver to loosen the nuts you do not
need to remove the nuts carefully remove
the blower and set it aside
use a shop vac to clean inside the
exhaust area and the fins of the blower
inspect the gasket if it is torn or
damaged it must be replaced see your
dealer for a replacement
after completely cleaning the exhaust
system reinstall the blower preform or
check with your dealer annually for a
thorough exhaust system cleaning we hope
this DVD has helped you understand how
to operate and maintain your Mount
Vernon AE pellet stove properly so that
you can enjoy your new Quadra fire for
many years to come